*name:* Yin Zhang

*office:* ACES 5.248

*phone:* (512) 232-7496

*e-mail:* yzhang@cs.utexas.edu

*website:* http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~yzhang/

*office hours:* TTh 1-2p

*type:* professor

*degrees earned:* B.S. in Computer Science, Peking University at Beijing, 1997;
M.S. in Computer Science, Cornell University, 1999;
Ph.D. in Computer Science, Cornell University, 2001

*research area:* Computer Networks

*graduate students:* Tae Won Cho, UT Austin (2005–present)
• Yi Li, UT Austin (2005–present) • Ajay A. Mahimkar, UT Austin (2005–present) • Upendra B. Shevade (2007–present) • Han hee Song, UT Austin (2005–present) • Kirill Levchenko, U. C. San Diego (Summer 2004) • Kartikeya Chandrayana, RPI (Summer 2003) • Sumeet Singh, U.C. San Diego (Summer 2003) • Kashi Vishwanath, Duke (Summer 2002) • Yan Chen, U.C. Berkeley (Summer 2002)

*classes:* CS386M: Communication Networks [Fall 2005, Spring 2007, Spring 2008, Fall 2008, Fall 2009]
CS378: Advanced Computer Networks [Spring 2009]
CS356: Computer Networks [Fall 2007]
CS378: Network Measurement and Intrusion Detection [Fall 2006]
CS395T: Advanced Topics in Computer Networks [Spring 2006]
CS395T: Network Measurement and Inference [Spring 2005]

*journals:*  1. Han Hee Song, Lili Qiu and Yin Zhang, “NetQuest: A Flexible Framework for Large-Scale Network Mea-
surement,” in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 106–119, February 2009.
2. Ying Zhang, Zihui Ge, Suhas Diggavi, Z. Morley Mao, Matthew Roughan, Vinay Vaishampayan, Wal- ter Willinger, and Yin Zhang, “Internet Traffic and Multiresolution Analysis,” IMS Collections, Volume 4, “Markov Processes and Related Topics: A Festschrift for Thomas G. Kurtz,” Stewart N. Ethier, Jin Feng, Richard H. Stockbridge, Editors, Editors, 2008.
3. Robert Schweller, Zhichun Li, Yan Chen, Yan Gao, Ashish Gupta, Elliot Parsons, Yin Zhang, Peter Dinda, Ming-Yang Kao and Gokhan Memik, “Reversible Sketches: Enabling Monitoring and Analysis over High- speed Data Streams,” in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 1059–1072, October 2007.
4. Lili Qiu, Yang Richard Yang, Yin Zhang and Scott Shenker, “On Selfish Routing in Internet-like Environ- ments,” in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 725–738, August 2006.
5. Matthew Roughan and Yin Zhang, “Secure Distributed Data Mining and its Application in Large-Scale Network Measurements,” in ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review (CCR), January 2006.
6. Yin Zhang, Matthew Roughan, Carsten Lund and David Donoho, “Estimating Point-to-Point and Point-to- Multipoint Traffic Matrices: An Information-Theoretic Approach,” in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Network- ing, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 947–960, October 2005.
7. Lili Qiu, Yin Zhang and Srinivasan Keshav, “Understanding the Performance of Many TCP Flows,” Com- puter Networks, vol. 37, no. 3–4, pp. 277–306, November 2001.
8. Li-ang Zhang and Yin Zhang, “Approximation for Knapsack Problems with Multiple Constraints,” Journal of Computer Science and Technology, vol. 14, no. 4, July 1999, Allerton Press, Inc.
9. Yin Zhang and Zhuoqun Xu, “Concurrent Manipulation of Expanded AVL Trees,” Journal of Computer Science and Technology, vol. 13, no. 4, July 1998, Allerton Press, Inc.
*conferences:* N/A

*books:* N/A

*awards:* Faculty Fellowship #9 in Computer Sciences, The University of Texas at Austin, 2008 – 2009. • IEEE Senior Member, 2007. • National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Award, 2006. • Two SIGCOMM 2003 papers selected for fast-track publication by IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. • Research Excellence Award, AT&T Labs–Research, 2001.
• Best Student Paper Award, 9th USENIX Security Symposium, 2000. • Gold Medal, 33rd International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO), 1992. • First Prize, Chinese High School Mathematics Competition, 1991.